
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
Less than a week after finishing his term as chair of the 
Democratic National Committee
 (DNC), 
Tom Perez
 may have a new job in his sights.
The
 Maryland 
resident said in a podcast interview released on Tuesday that he’s mulling a run for
 governor
 in his home state.
PEREZ SUCCEEDED BY SOUTH CAROLINA'S HARRISON AS DNC CHAIR
Perez made the news in a new interview with the liberal podcaster Bill Press on "The Bill Press Pod."

      DNC Chair Tom Perez speaks to a Democratic Party gathering in New Hampshire ahead of the 2020 New Hampshire presidential primary
      
"I live here in Maryland," Perez told liberal podcaster Bill Press on
 "The Bill Press Pod." 
"I love the great state of Maryland. Looking at things here perhaps. We have an open governor’s seat next year. Our current incumbent is term-limited. So [I’m] taking a look at that; we’ll see what happens."
Maryland’s current governor, popular Republican Gov. Larry Hogan, is term limited and prevented from running for re-election in 2022. 
Perez, a native of New York State, served as Montgomery County, Maryland council president and secretary of the Maryland Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation before serving as an assistant attorney general and Labor secretary in President Barack Obama’s administration. He was elected as DNC chair in 2017.
MARYLAND GOV. HOGAN WANTS GOP TO RETURN TO ITS ROOTS
If Perez decided to launch a campaign, he would join what might turn into a very crowded Democratic primary field in the very blue state. Peter Franchot, a former state lawmaker who’s served 15 years as  comptroller of Maryland, confirmed earlier this month that he’ll run for governor. 
More than 15 other Democrats are considered potential candidates. That list includes former Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown, former congressman and 2020 Democratic presidential candidate John Delaney, former Maryland attorney general and former gubernatorial candidate Doug Gansler, former NAACP president and CEO and 2018 Democratic gubernatorial nominee Ben Jealous, former NAACP president and current Rep. Kweisi Mfume, Reps. John Sarbanes and David Trone, and 2014 gubernatorial candidate Heather Mizeur.
Republican Lt. Gov. Boyd Rutherford has publicly expressed interest in running in 2022. And at least 10 other Republicans are considered possible contenders, including former Republican National Committee chair, 2006 Senate nominee and former Lt. Gov. Michael Steele.
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
