Deeley, the chair of Philadelphia's three-member election commission and a Democrat, watched from home as Trump falsely claimed during the first 2020 presidential debate that poll watchers had already been turned away at early voting centers in Philadelphia.
"Bad things happen in Philadelphia," Trump said. 
Deeley's cell phone immediately lit up with calls and text messages.
"A lot of my family, my friends, got a little chuckle out of it, but I knew it wasn't at all something to laugh about," she told CNN. "It was just the beginning."
Trump's efforts to subvert the election began well before Election Day, and have only gained momentum since, with Republicans passing laws to restrict voting or make it easier for partisans to interfere in more than a dozen states, including key battlegrounds. Most recently, in Texas, Gov. Greg Abbott signed an election bill into law last week over the fierce objection of the state's Democrats, who, in hopes of derailing similar restrictions proposed earlier this summer, had fled the state two times en masse.
The state legislative efforts are bolstered by a coordinated, behind-the-scenes push by conservative groups to raise millions to support restrictive voting laws, spread unproven claims about voter fraud and fund sham audits of election results. All of which, election experts say, will make it easier the next time to overturn close results, and puts the future of free and fair elections in jeopardy.
"I don't think we've ever been at a point that's been quite this tenuous for the democracy," Christine Todd Whitman, a former GOP governor of New Jersey and a founder and co-chair of States United Democracy Center, told CNN. "I think it's a huge danger because it's the first time that I've seen it being undermined -- our democracy being undermined from within." 
CNN spoke to about a dozen state and county officials involved in elections for this story; all of them expressed concern that the widespread and unsubstantiated claims of a stolen election could take a lasting toll on American democracy. 
For weeks after the election, Trump tried to sabotage the will of American voters in his relentless attempts to overturn the results. He and his allies browbeat local officials in multiple states and tried in vain to coerce the Department of Justice to open a bogus investigation. They dispatched attorneys to file nearly 
60 lawsuits
 across the country; all but one minor case were dropped or dismissed -- some by Trump-appointed judges.
But while those efforts were stymied by a thin line of civil servants, a concerted push in myriad states to set the stage for a future power grab is finding more success. 
"It's all designed to make it easier to raise the doubt and uncertainty to allow a close election to be overturned," said Ben Berwick, an attorney at Protect Democracy, a nonpartisan organization that works to keep elections and election administration from being politicized.  "2020 was a preview of what is likely to be darker times to come, if we continue down this path away from democracy." 
Big lie fuels threats against election workers
Polls show most Republican voters continue to believe Trump's lie that he won the election. In July, 
a poll
 from The Associated Press and the NORC Center for Public Affairs Research found that two-thirds of Republicans still believe Biden was not legitimately elected.
That big lie, coupled with punishing new laws and threats against poll workers, has prompted fatigue in the field and 
a potential exodus
 of knowledgeable people to run smooth elections in the future, experts and poll workers say.
"What it's going to cause -- and we've seen this happening across the country -- is local officials are going to leave," said Matthew Masterson, a former senior cybersecurity adviser with the Department of Homeland Security's Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, primarily responsible for elections. "That opens the door to adding more political actors -- less professional, more political actors -- into the election space, which, again, is incredibly dangerous." 
Nearly 1 in 3 election officials say they feel unsafe because of their jobs, and about 1 in 5 listed threats to their lives as a job-related concern, according to a spring 
survey
 commissioned by the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University's Law School. 
Among them is Claire Woodall-Vogg, the executive director of the Milwaukee election commission. In early August -- nine months after the election -- she received voicemails calling for her hanging. Those and other threats followed two rightwing websites publishing an email exchange in which she responded to a joke by an election consultant on November 4 about how the votes had been submitted at 3 a.m. The sites suggested Woodall-Vogg delivered Joe Biden a questionable win in her district.
"Are we going to hold people who are publishing conspiracy theories accountable when someone does get killed?" Woodall-Vogg said in an interview with CNN.  
In Philadelphia, Deeley was confronted outside the convention center a few days after the election by a man taking a cellphone 
video
 of her walking down the street. It was James Fitzpatrick, Trump's Pennsylvania director of Election Day operations, who lobbed allegations of corruption at her as she covered her face.
"It got millions of views," Deeley, an elected official, told CNN. "And awful comments about my physical shape, people called me all kinds of names, people saying I should be hung for treason, that 'we should find out where she lives and kill her,' 'we should bludgeon her.' I mean -- unbelievable." 
The city was also flooded with threatening phone calls. 
"People just wanted to believe," Deeley said. "They want to believe something that is not true. And there's not one shred of evidence to prove that it's true, but they just want to believe it."
It isn't just election officials who have faced threats. In Arizona, which in last year's presidential vote flipped from red to blue, a wave of animus came down on the majority-Republican Maricopa County Board of Supervisors, which oversees elections for about 60% of the state's voters. 
"On a daily basis ... we're told that we need to go in, go to jail -- either on social media, phone calls to the office, emails -- and the threats do continue," said Bill Gates, a Republican member of the board, adding that last month, "My colleagues and I all were treated to an orange jumpsuit that a gentleman sent to us and, you know, declared that we will end up in jail someday because we are traitors in the minds of these people."
Pressure campaign results in coup attempt
Just as he did in 
2016
, when he claimed the upcoming election was "rigged" against him, Trump started calling the integrity of the 2020 election into question long before any vote was cast. 
"The only way we're going to lose this election is if the election is rigged," he told a group of supporters in Wisconsin last August.
After the election, as the days ticked by, Trump's increasingly desperate behavior produced a steady barrage of headlines -- as it always has. From his perch at the White House, a symbol of the strongest democracy in human history, he made personal phone calls to local officials, badgering them to change the results. 
He paid considerable attention to Georgia, another state that flipped from red to blue in November.
In a particularly stunning exchange, Trump tried to convince Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger to change the vote count -- a move that became part of a criminal state investigation into attempts to "influence the election."
During that call, Trump said he wanted to "find 11,780 votes" -- the amount he needed to win Georgia by a single vote.
Trump's personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, also made the rounds. He phoned Gates, the Republican member of the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors in Arizona. 
Gates did not return the call. 
"This was the first time that I was ever aware of that you had folks at the national level trying to impose their will on a county elected official," Gates told CNN. "That was bizarre and frightening."
Trump also convened multiple meetings with elected officials from purple states at the White House to discuss election fraud, even though his own Department of Homeland Security declared the election "the most secure in American history." 
And on January 6 in Washington -- the day Vice President Mike Pence disregarded Trump's request to challenge the results -- Trump told tens of thousands of supporters who'd convened in DC that day to "fight like hell." A deadly riot ensued shortly after at the US Capitol. 
But it wasn't until this summer, when a series of revelations surfaced about how Trump had sought to use his Department of Justice as a cudgel to turn a loss into a win, that it became clear what the totality of his actions amounted to: 
an attempted coup
. 
In late July, the Department of Justice 
released documents 
showing that Trump in December had threatened to replace his acting attorney general, Jeffrey Rosen, with a midlevel attorney in the Justice Department named Jeffrey Clark, who'd been meeting with Trump and promoted
 wild conspiracy theories
 about election fraud -- such as that a Dominion voting machine had "accessed the Internet through a smart thermostat with a net connection trail leading back to China." Clark also urged his superiors -- Rosen and his deputy, Richard Donoghue --  to sign a letter to Georgia's governor falsely claiming the Department of Justice had "identified significant concerns that may have impacted the outcome of the election in multiple States, including the State of Georgia."
None of that worked to keep Trump in office. But the extraordinary events of the past year raise the question: Was the chaotic campaign to circumvent the will of American voters unique to Trump? Or has a new standard been set? 
"Trump-ism is going to survive Donald Trump, and he has unleashed a set of forces, anti-democratic -- small-D democratic -- anti-democratic forces that are going to plague American democracy for years to come," warned Rick Hasen, an election law expert at the University of California at Irvine. "I think we're in grave danger."
New laws shift election powers
Five days before the November election, Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp's office 
announced
 that he and his wife were in quarantine after having been in contact with someone who'd tested positive for Covid-19. That day, Kemp requested an absentee ballot, which 
arrived
 a day before the election.
Four months later, in March, Kemp signed a voting bill into law that, had it been in place for the 2020 election, would have barred even himself from receiving a ballot, said Tonnie Adams, a self-described conservative who serves as elections supervisor for Georgia's Heard County. 
"I'm not kidding," Adams told CNN. "Gov. Kemp would not have been able to vote if this rule had been in place."
Under Georgia's Election Integrity Act of 2021, voters are not permitted to apply for an absentee ballot within 
11 days
 before the election -- which would have invalidated Kemp. In addition to making absentee voting -- or "mail-in voting" -- harder in this and other ways, the new law reduces drop boxes, essentially bans mobile voting centers, makes it illegal for election officials to mail out unsolicited absentee-ballot applications to all voters, and also makes it illegal for people to offer food or water to voters in line within a certain radius of the voting precinct.
Georgia's law is just one of a slew to be proposed or enacted in the noisy aftermath of the election, all hurriedly conceived at a time of rampant amplification of Trump's lie. The Justice Department is 
suing the state
 over its new voting restrictions.
In more than a dozen states -- including toss-ups like Georgia, Arizona and Florida -- Republican-led legislatures are enacting laws that could make it more difficult to vote. The restrictions are expected to 
disproportionately impact
 a rapidly growing demographic -- non-White voters --  to the benefit of a 
shrinking Republican base
.
 
Voter-outreach groups say the batch of new statutes represents the most serious threat to the voting power of the marginalized since Jim Crow-era poll taxes and literacy tests, which sought to curtail the Black vote and were banished by the 24th Amendment and federal Voting Rights Act of 1965. 
Aklima Khondoker, chief legal officer of the New Georgia Project -- a nonpartisan voter registration group founded by Stacey Abrams -- said the surge of new laws is "shocking, but not surprising." 
"I was shocked because it is appalling to see this out-and-out lie proliferate the way that it has over our elections," she said. "It's not surprising, because when you look at the history of voting -- not only in Georgia but across our nation -- it has always been fraught. It has always come up against challenges to people of color specifically." 
Georgia's new law, experts say, is the boldest of the bunch.
"It's a massive power grab," said Adams.
To be sure, there are some provisions of the 98-page Georgia law that actually 
expand voting access
, such as weekend hours during the early voting period. 
But Georgia's law and others passed in 2021 are calling for a new kind of tactic that experts find alarming, in which elections are increasingly overseen by partisan officials. Hasen, the elections expert at UC Irvine, calls it "election subversion," a phenomenon that he says is distinct from "voter suppression" and is "newly appearing on the horizon." 
"The idea here is manipulating how votes are counted or how elections are conducted, so that it's possible that the winner who was announced is not actually the choice of the voters," Hasen said.
Georgia's law takes what had been the secretary of state's seat on the state elections board and hands it to a legislative appointee, granting the GOP-controlled legislature more power over the board. It then allows that board to suspend county election officials and replace them with an 
individual
 of its choosing. The law effectively empowers partisan state lawmakers to intervene in how counties administer and count the vote -- a process that has 
already begun
 in Fulton County, the state's most populous, predominantly blue county that's faced complaints over its election operations for years.
In Arizona, a new law includes a remarkable end run around Democrats.  
In recent months, Gov. Doug Ducey signed into law GOP measures that, along with enacting voting restrictions and making it easier to purge early voting lists, stripped power from the secretary of state, Democrat Katie Hobbs. It shifts control over any election-related litigation to Arizona's attorney general, currently Republican Mark Brnovich, but only until January 2023, when Hobbs' term ends -- in effect, ensuring that a Republican official will control any litigation over mid-term elections in that state.
"That's pretty blatant," said Lawrence