
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
Several 
congressmen
, including members of both political parties, were denied access to 
Afghan
 refugees at Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar, Republican California Rep. Darrell Issa told Fox News. 
Issa told Fox News in a Thursday phone call that he is "frustrated that the administration decided to deny us oversight of the remaining refugees here or any real access to these centers." 
Issa's office said they began outreach to U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) and the U.S. Embassy in Qatar for the trip back in September, but only found out this week that they would be denied access to the refugees. 
"Nobody said that there would be a problem with DOD until after we were here and then they started talking about how they were in the final stages and didn't have the resources, basically they didn't want us to meet with refugees and hear their stories," Issa said. 
STATE DEPT TRYING TO STEAL CREDIT FOR RESCUE OF 4 AMERICANS FROM AFGHANISTAN, ORGANIZER SAYS: ‘TOTAL LIE’ 
The congressman said his fellow Californian, Democratic Rep. Lou Correa, was among those in attendance. 
"There are tens of thousands of Afghans brought in this country, that the administration flew here, and they have no idea who they are. Now, they are holding refugee camp on an American military base, and they don't want us to know who they are," an Issa staffer told Fox News. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Republicans have raised serious concerns in recent weeks about the 
Biden administration's
 vetting of Afghan refugees. Those concerns have only intensified after 
two Afghan men were arrested
, one for sex crimes with a minor and the other for domestic abuse. 
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas revealed last month that 
only 3%
 of the over 60,000 Afghan evacuees brought to the United States following the end of the war in Afghanistan have been special immigrant visa recipients.
"Approximately 6 percent have been lawful permanent residents. Approximately 3 percent have been individuals who are in receipt of the special immigrant visas," Mayorkas said during congressional testimony at the time.
A CENTCOM spokesman didn't return Fox News' request for comment by press time. 
Fox News' Michael Lee contributed reporting.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
